Title: Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.02289v1

Published Time: Tue, 04 Aug 2026 02:51:34 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
# Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 

Annajoyce Mariani 1[0009 −0001 −6647 −9996] , Kira Maag 2[0000 −0003 −1767 −0476] , and Hanno Gottschalk 1[0000 −0003 −2167 −2028]  

> 1

Technical University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany  

> 2

Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany 

Abstract. Realistic and diverse trajectory generation is central to en-abling higher levels of vehicle automation. While rule-based and classi-cal learning-based methods may struggle to capture the complexity of traffic behavior, generative models have already demonstrated in other fields that they can handle a comparable level of complexity. In this paper, we build upon previous work on generative adversarial network (GAN)-based semantic bird’s-eye-view traffic generation and extend the proposed framework in several key aspects. We improve the semantic representation, replace the trajectory extraction procedure with a graph-based association method, and systematically investigate increasingly larger fields of view. In addition, we introduce a quantitative evaluation framework to assess hallucinations and object permanence in generated videos. Our experiments demonstrate that the framework generalizes to larger and more complex traffic scenes while maintaining statistically realistic trajectories and coherent spatial relationships between traffic participants. Within 150 GPU hours of training and with inference times below 20 ms for scenes of up to 20 s, our results demonstrate that video-based GANs remain an efficient and scalable approach for realistic tra-jectory generation, even in substantially larger traffic scenes, making them well suited for downstream tasks such as prediction, planning, and simulation in automated driving. 

Keywords: Automated Driving · Video Generation · Trajectories 

# 1 Introduction 

Fully automated vehicles have the potential to reduce fuel consumption and traffic congestion, while increasing road safety and improving independence for humans with reduced mobility [9]. While approaches based on explicit program-ming and rules could could not guarantee the amount of diversity and flexibility that characterizes the good human driver, it has become increasingly apparent in recent years that deep learning (DL) could achieve this goal [15,22]. The Auto-mated Driving (AD) task is usually decomposed into the subtasks of perception, prediction, planning, and control [14]. Among these tasks, DL has already dras-tically improved the capabilities of computer vision, which is employed in any arXiv:2608.02289v1 [cs.CV] 3 Aug 2026 2 A. Mariani et al.  

> Fig. 1. 3D representation of a scene from the Waymo Open Motion Dataset [38]. Image is extracted from [28].

AD system in the perception module [12]. However, the real decision making center of an automated vehicle, where the versatility of DL can make a differ-ence between stiff and hesitant driving in complex and interactive environments, lies in the prediction and planning subtasks (see Figure 1). In particular, trajec-tory prediction entails estimating the future positions of dynamic agents (e.g., vehicles and pedestrians), while trajectory planning aims to propose and choose trajectories compliant with the traffic regulations, the safety of other road users and the driving prompts of a human or automated navigator [1,23]. The subtasks of the AD stack can either be designed and trained independently, for example, first predicting possible future paths of road users and later reason over this information to plan a safe route [30,6], or together in so called end-to-end ar-chitectures [42]. A hybrid approach, fusing predicting and planning, consists on generating realistic futures jointly with a safe motion plan for the ego vehicle, and only intend planning as picking one of these ego trajectories compatibly with the navigation prompts [7,45,48]. In particular, two contrasting paradigms for modeling trajectories can be identified. On the one hand, prediction is often approached as forecasting a discrete set of sequential trajectories, either with attention-based sequential net-works [7,29,50], or more recently with generative models, such as diffusion models or generative adversarial networks (GANs) [20,25]. These models are capable of predicting diverse and multimodal futures, as they are designed to model the Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 3

full distribution of the data they are trained on by minimizing the distance of the generated distribution from the true data distribution. On the other hand, approaches modeling scenes in a visual or semantic way, such as occupancy grids in a visual bird’s-eye view (BEV) perspective, intrinsically handle spatial layout constraints such as shape-aware safety distances and joint interactions between road users and infrastructure, and contextual cues such as traffic signals and road geometry. These methods also naturally handle trajectories of variable length, such as agents entering and exiting the relevant surrounding of the automated vehicle, which can be an issue when learning trajectory sequences [27,13]. Al-though most of such spatially-grounded approaches make use of attention-based architectures, they do not leverage the aforementioned advantages of generative models [13,8,32,27]. Prior work [28] demonstrated that video generative models trained on low-resolution BEV semantical videos of traffic scenes can generate statistically accurate trajectories while capturing spatial relationships between traffic agents. Building upon this foundation, we extend the approach to larger and more complex scenes, while improving and widening the range of analysis and the field of view (FOV) of the generated scenes. Capturing a larger spatial context enables the modeling of long-range dependencies and complex multi-agent interactions, resulting in more realistic and representative traffic scenarios. Our pipeline consists of creating semantic BEV representations of traffic scenes from abstract data, training the video-generative model and extracting the tra-jectories from the generated videos. We choose in particular a videoGAN model over a diffusion model due to their significantly lower computational cost, and faster training and inference times [44]. While diffusion models often outperform GANs by design in terms of visual fidelity and sample diversity [44,34], these ad-vantages are less relevant for the trajectory proposal tasks, where performance is measured by task-specific metrics beyond visual quality, such as physical plausi-bility or driving feasibility. In particular, we choose a videoGAN model that has been shown to generate dynamically coherent scenes of any desired length [3]. To assess the realism of the proposed trajectories, we analyze the coherence of the generated videos, including hallucination rates, the distribution alignment of spatial and dynamic parameters such as inter-agent distances and relative speeds with respect to the input data, along with their interactions with traffic lights. The source code of our method and the trained models are made publicly available at https://github.com/ajmariani/video-gan-trajectories. Our contributions can be summarized as follows: 

– We introduce an improved graph-based object tracking method for seman-tic trajectory generation, while maintaining inference times below 20 ms for generating traffic scenes of up to 20 s. 

– We systematically investigate larger fields of view, evaluating scene genera-tion over longitudinal ranges of 15 m, 20 m, and 25 m. 

– We propose a quantitative evaluation framework to assess the visual quality of generated scenes by measuring hallucinations, including disappearing and splitting vehicles. 4 A. Mariani et al. 

– We comprehensively evaluate the realism and safety of the generated tra-jectories using scene density, time-to-collision distributions, relative vehicle speeds, accelerations, and interactions between traffic participants and dy-namic traffic signals. 

# 2 Related Work 

2.1 Deep Learning for Trajectory Proposal 

Most approaches to trajectory prediction and proposal formulate the problem as generating a discrete set of possible future trajectories for each detected agent, either conditioned or unconditioned on past observations [4]. This paradigm has been explored through encoder-decoder and self-attention architectures, in-cluding MTR [36], HiVT [50], Scene Transformer [29], and HDGT [19]. More recently, generative models such as diffusion models and GANs have also been applied to trajectory prediction, for example MotionDiffuser [20], MID [10], and SocialGAN [11]. Compared with deterministic or mode-enumerating architec-tures, generative models are attractive because they can explicitly model high-dimensional, multimodal future distributions and therefore produce diverse plau-sible futures [25]. An alternative line of work represents the future scene in a spatial or spa-tiotemporal semantic format, for example as BEV occupancy grids, occupancy-flow fields, or semantic BEV videos. Rather than enumerating a fixed set of trajectories for each agent, these methods predict scene-wise future fields. This representation naturally encodes spatial layout, static and dynamic map con-text, and joint interactions among road users. It also avoids some limitations of agent-wise trajectory representations, which typically assume a fixed set of tracked agents and fixed-length sequences, making it less natural to represent agents entering, leaving, or emerging from occlusion. This direction has been ex-plored with recurrent models [32], convolutional networks [13,43], and attention-or encoder-decoder-based architectures. Many of these purely occupancy-based representations struggle with instance identity and motion correspondence, espe-cially if aiming at next-step prediction [27]. Recent occupancy-flow and implicit occupancy-field methods address or bypass this limitations by augmenting oc-cupancy with motion information [27] or limiting their aim at predicting a prob-ability of future occupancy [8]. Despite this progress, generative modeling of semantic BEV future representations remains comparatively less explored than generative modeling of agent-wise trajectory sets. Only few recent world-model approaches have begun to generate future 3D or 4D occupancy sequences as a spatiotemporal unit with, such as OccSora, which applies transformer-based dif-fusion models to spatiotemporal occupancy grids [41]. However, diffusion models present significant inference times, which makes them more successful at scene simulation than trajectory prediction. Our previous work [28] introduced the first GAN-based frameworks for spatiotemporal trajectory generation from semantic BEV video representations. The present work builds upon and significantly ex-tends this approach. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 5

2.2 Videogenerative Models 

Here we briefly compare videoGANs and video diffusion models to motivate the choice of the former. Diffusion models generate samples by iterative de-noising, often in latent space, and they are dominating the attention both in research and commercial uses [37,2,49] due to their high visual fidelity and di-versity [33]. However, inference is notoriously expensive and wall-clock latency speeds are low and under-reported in literature, sitting in the order of magni-tude of 1 to 100 seconds per scene [26,47]. In contrast, GANs are considered less competitive than diffusion models in most video generative applications, as they generally struggle with object permanence and training instability, and they can display lower diversity than diffusion models [35]. On the other side, GAN-based models generate videos in a single forward pass, enabling signifi-cantly faster inference [5]. As an example, one of the benchmark models for video generation, CMD, which claims to have high inference speeds, generates a 16 frames video in 3.1 seconds [46], while the videoGAN model employed in this paper can generate scenes of over 1000 frames in 200 ms, although at lower resolutions. This efficiency makes GAN-based approaches particularly attrac-tive for simulation and real-time applications. Advances in video generation, such as LongVideoGAN [3], have further improved the competitiveness of GAN-based video generation and demonstrated that redesigning the temporal latent representation in a StyleGAN-inspired fashion substantially improves long-term temporal consistency, object persistence, and scene diversity while maintain-ing efficient inference. The low-resolution branch of this architecture forms the backbone of our work, enabling the generation of dynamically coherent videos over extended horizons. Comparing video generative models remains challeng-ing, as no universally accepted evaluation metric exists. Common image-level metrics such as the Inception Score (IS) and Fréchet Inception Distance (FID) do not capture temporal consistency, while the Fréchet Video Distance (FVD), although specifically designed for videos, has been shown to overlook tempo-ral artifacts and semantic inconsistencies [18]. Consequently, these metrics only partially reflect perceptual video quality and often correlate imperfectly with hu-man judgments [40,17]. This makes quantitative comparisons between different video generation paradigms, such as GANs and diffusion models, and between individual models inherently difficult. 

2.3 VideoGAN for Trajectory Generation 

In [28], a videoGAN-based trajectory proposal framework for automated vehi-cles was introduced, where traffic scenarios are represented as 2D semantic BEV videos. Instead of directly predicting agent trajectories, this approach learns the distribution of traffic scenes through video generation. Abstract trajectory data are rasterized into sequences of low-D semantic frames using an HSV-based color encoding, which represent different scene elements such as road structures, traffic lights, and vehicles. A videoGAN is then trained on these semantic sequences to 6 A. Mariani et al. 

generate realistic future traffic scenarios. The generated trajectories are recov-ered by extracting object positions from the generated frames and associating object identities across timesteps using a cost matrix-based matching procedure. This formulation allows the model to capture both spatial relationships and tem-poral dynamics between multiple traffic participants. In this work, we build upon this framework and extend it in three main aspects. First, we replace the HSV-based representation with a Lab color-space encoding to improve the separation between semantic categories and facilitate the extraction of objects and trajectories from the generated scenes. Second, we introduce a graph-based trajectory extraction approach, where detected objects in individual frames are represented as nodes and temporal associations are established through edges based on the reciprocal overlap of objects in adjacent frames. Finally, we extend the generation framework to larger FOVs, enabling the modeling of more extensive traffic contexts and long-range interactions between agents. 

2.4 Metrics for Trajectory Proposal 

Two main types of metric exist to assess safety and realism of generated trajecto-ries: displacement metrics, and statistical scores. Displacement metrics, such as Average Displacement Error and Final Displacement Error, measure how close a predicted trajectory is to its corresponding ground truth. These metrics are not meaningful in our framework, as our model does not predict continuations of observed trajectories but instead generates entirely new scenes of traffic by learning distribution of the training data. Statistical scores assess the safety and realism of generated trajectories in terms of red-light violation, collision and overlap rates, unsafe spacing, and time spent driving off-road or in the wrong lane [16,31]. The time-to-collision is also used to assess the level of risk of a scene even if no collision happen, by measuring the ratio between the distance between two vehicles and their closing speed, i.e., their speed relative to each other [24]. Driving smoothness and realism are also evaluated statistically by comparing the distributions of parameters such as vehicle speed, acceleration, jerk and inter-vehicle distance [21]. We use a similar statistical comparison between the speeds and accelerations of the generated and training data. To capture realism and physical plausibility in the trajectory proposal con-text, we therefore adopt statistical distributional comparisons between generated and real data in quantities such as speeds and accelerations relative to the ego vehicle, the average distance and time-to-collision between vehicles, and their speeds around red and green traffic lights, along with static analysis of scene density and object sizes. We complement the statistical evaluation with a task-specific visual metric that quantifies hallucinations in generated traffic scenes by measuring the occurrence of appearing, disappearing, merging, and splitting vehicles. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 7 

> Fig. 2. A schematic illustration of the pipeline. The abstract trajectory data is ras-terized into low-resolution BEV semantic videos of traffic scenes. A videoGAN model, which consists of a generator (G) that attempts to generate realistic data, and a dis-criminator (D) that distinguishes real data from generated data, is trained on the semantic scenes. Last, abstract trajectories are extracted from the generated videos. Illustration adapted from [28].

# 3 Proposed Method 

In this section we present the data processing and training pipeline we use to create semantic BEV representation of the traffic scenes from an AD dataset, train a videoGAN model on them, and extract trajectory data from the generated videos. A schematic representation is shown in Figure 2. 

3.1 Rasterization of Trajectory Data 

The trajectory data from a street scene dataset is first converted into a semantic raster representation. This representation captures the spatial layout of the traf-fic scene frame by frame, while preserving the temporal evolution of the traffic participants across the full scene. Our semantic representation of traffic scenes includes three elements for each timestep: 1. centerlines of the road map, 2. position, orientation and two-dimensional shape of the ego car and the agents in its surrounding, i.e., in its FOV, 3. state and position of traffic lights in the FOV. First, we convert all the world coordinates into image coordinates, where each scene is centered around a designated reference agent from a BEV perspec-tive. For real-world datasets, this reference is naturally chosen as the recording vehicle, as observations typically become less reliable with increasing distance from the sensor platform. In contrast, synthetic datasets allow any traffic par-ticipant to be selected as the scene center, substantially increasing the number of training samples that can be extracted from a single simulation, depending on the chosen FOV. Each element of the traffic scene is assigned a three-channel color value. Although the videoGAN could, in principle, learn arbitrary value combinations and channel representations independent of their RGB interpreta-tion, GANs are known to exhibit unstable training behavior in practice. Since 8 A. Mariani et al.    

> L =-10 L =10
> L =30 L =40
> Fig. 3. Four slices of the Lab space represented in RGB.

we do not identify a compelling advantage of using a non-color encoding, and the employed videoGAN has demonstrated strong performance on RGB video generation [3], we adopt an RGB-based representation throughout this work. To preserve the semantic identity of the different scene elements, we employ a color encoding that maximizes the separation between semantic categories. This facil-itates both the learning process of the videoGAN and the subsequent extraction of semantic information from the generated videos. Moreover, assigning visually distinguishable colors to semantic objects provides a simple qualitative means of visual assessing training progress. The semantic representation comprises the following categories: empty space, road markings, the three traffic light states, the ego vehicle, and other vehicles. We found the Lab color space to be particularly well suited for clearly separating these semantic categories. Neither the RGB nor the HSV color spaces (used in Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 9      

> (a) 15 m real (b) 20 m real (c) 25 m real (d) 15 m gen. (e) 20 m gen. (f) 25 m gen.
> Fig. 4. Some examples of frames from real traffic scenes (a,b,c) and from generated ones (d,e,f) for the three FOVs investigated in this work. The scenes are represented as occupancy grid videos in BEV perspective, with road users as 2D Bounding Boxes, traffic lights as green, yellow or red circles, and road as gray center lines.

[28]) provide the same degree of separation, whereas Lab enables a more distinct categorization while remaining easily interpretable by humans. The Lab color space represents colors using three channels: L for lightness, a for the green-red axis, and b for the blue-yellow axis. Some 2D slices of the 3D Lab space, rendered in RGB, are displayed in Figure 3. Figure 4 shows some examples of semantic traffic frames at different FOVs, both rasterized from real data (on the left) and generated by the model (on the right). Center lines are rendered in the back-ground as continuous lines of specified thickness and gray color, corresponding to the Lab range where L ∈ [30,90], and a and b values are around 0. In our experiments, a thickness of 1.5 m is used for the center line. Traffic lights are rendered as red, green, or yellow circles of size 2 ×2 m in the foreground. Two ellipsoidal ranges are selected to cover red and green respectively, and one to cover yellow, as displayed in Figure 3. Each road user is rendered as a rectangle of the specified size, position and orientation. The ego car is black (low L levels), while other road users have colors sampled from the remaining blue-pink range, characterized by a negative b value, and positive L . After rasterization, each frame is cropped to window of specified pixel size and aspect ratio that represents the surroundings of the ego vehicle. 

3.2 Training 

We follow the training procedure proposed in the previous work [28], as it has been shown to produce high-quality traffic scene generations using a video GAN. By adopting the same training strategy, we ensure a fair comparison while allow-ing our extensions to be evaluated independently of changes to the underlying generative model. 

3.3 Frame by Frame Object Detection 

The first step in the extraction of trajectories from a generated (or training) video is identifying the objects present in each frame. In order to do so, a pipeline 10 A. Mariani et al.  

> Fig. 5. Two sets of frames displaying the frame by frame extraction process and accu-racy. The first set is from a real video, the second from a generated video. For each set, moving left to right, we see: the original frame, the mask for traffic lights, the mask for vehicles, and original image overlaid with the pipeline prediction of the center of the object. The object detection pipeline is fairly accurate even when a vehicle is similar in color to or passing beneath a traffic light. In the pipeline, the masks for the ego agent and other road users are separated, but they are merged in this figure for visualization purposes. Notice that due to the inpainting step, a vehicle adjacent to a traffic light can appear as slightly longer in the extracted mask.

mostly based on color filtering in the Lab space is used. The Lab ranges asso-ciated to each semantic categories are the same used to rasterize the training data, as described above. First, a filter is applied which produces a mask from red, green and yellow pixels respectively. Then, these pixels are inpainted in the original frame, such that a vehicle passing below a traffic light can be better detected as a single object. A similar masking is applied to the black ego vehicle and to the other road users. Each of the masks is analyzed to extract spatial features, including center coordinates, size, color, area, and shape descriptors such as rectangularity, cir-cularity and aspect ratio. Figure 5 displays two sets of frames and mask, one on a real frame, one on a generated one. For each set the original frame, the traffic light mask, the vehicles mask, and the original frame overlapped with the identified center of each of these objects are shown. Both the extracted mask and the deduced centers show that this step of the pipeline is very effective at identifying objects from the semantic representation, with high accuracy. The output of this pipeline is a list of objects with the aforementioned at-tributes, along with the corresponding timestep and the mask category from which they were derived. 

3.4 Trajectory Extraction 

Managing to extract trajectories from the generated videos is a crucial point in a video-generative approach to trajectory proposal. In this work, we follow a graph-based approach, where each object in each frame is assigned to one node, with properties such as their position, their object type, and their timestep. Then, we construct a graph by connecting each node to each other node in the following frame which has the same object type, and whose spatial positions overlap in any measure. The intensity of the edge is proportional to the overlap. Because the time difference between two frames is only 100 ms, even in the larger investigated FOV of 25 m, the amount of pixels that a vehicle can cover Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 11  

> Fig. 6. An example of trajectory graph extracted from a real video. The y-axis rep-resents a combination of longitudinal and lateral position, such that higher distances between two objects are represented by higher distances in position. The black line in the center corresponds to the ego vehicle, whose position remains stable in the center of the scene across time. In the beginning of the scene, three green light are present, and both the black and the purple vehicle move across them. Later in the scene, the purple agent is overtaken by the the ego vehicle. Notice one of the traffic lights turning right after the ego vehicle has crossed it.

in the 100 ms elapsing between one frame and the next is lower than the size of the car. Namely, a 96 pixels frame representing of 25 m FOV corresponds to around 3.8 pixels per meter. If a vehicle was to move at the excessive speed of 90 km/h relative to the ego vehicle, their position would still only change of 2.5 m in 1000 ms, which is less than the average vehicle length of 4.5 m. This is not always true for traffic lights, for which an additional mechanism is applied to link isolated nodes, if they are close enough in position, although not overlapping. A representation of the trajectory graph is shown in Figure 6. From the trajectories so extracted, position, speed and acceleration of each object relative to the ego vehicle can be computed. 

# 4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Setting 

We train the low-resolution network from LongVideoGAN [3] on a 80GB A100 GPUs for 140 GPU hours on 60k video sequences of 128 frames (12.8 seconds) each, for a total of around 260 h of driving content. We train for 200k steps with a batch size of 8, corresponding to around 26 epochs. We visually evaluate the progress of the training, and we test quantitatively over 200 scenes of 128 frames. We investigate rectangular scenes of pixel size 54 × 96, with three different FOVs: 15 m, 20 m and 25 m in the longitudinal direction. The training videos are pro-duced from the Waymo Open Motion Dataset [39], one of the largest and most diverse driving datasets. Inference takes approximately 20 ms for a 15 s scene and scales linearly with sequence length, reaching 150 ms for a 2-minute scene. Example images of training progress over iterations are shown in Figure 7. 12 A. Mariani et al.              

> 0 ep. 1.5 ep. 2.5 ep. 4 ep. 9 ep. 17 ep. 20 ep. 23 ep.
> Fig. 7. Examples from progressing training iterations at FOV 20 m
> (a) 15 m (b) 20 m (c) 20 m (d) 15 m (e) 25 m
> Fig. 8. Significant frames from generated videos of traffic scenes of different fields of view. The agents are observed waiting at a red light (a), crossing (b) and passing (c) a green light, approaching a yellow light (d) and moving in dense traffic (e)

4.2 Quality of the Generated Videos 

At https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7BAulb8rGsU we provide a selection of real and generated video clips for the three different FOV sizes of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m. Moreover, Figure 8 shows some examples in different FOVs of typically observed situations, such as passing a green light, waiting at a red light or navigating dense traffic. We find the best checkpoint at 20 epochs for the 15 m run, at 23 epochs for the 20 m run, and at 24 epochs for the 25 m run. In all three cases, we can see that the generated scenes look qualitatively very similar to the training data in colors and features. The generated vehicles drive well-aligned with the center lines, without sticking rigidly to the center, and their dynamics are smooth, without jerks in relative acceleration. We do not observe issues with object permanence, which can sometimes affect video-generative models. On the contrary, we observe instances of an agent leaving the frame, and later reappearing in a dynamically consistent position, which suggests the model is able to model these situations. Moreover, we do not observe any statistically relevant instance of agents spawning, merging or splitting, although occasionally, especially in larger scenes of FOV 25 m, some vehicles are observed to slowly vanish at red traffic lights for long scenes. The only visual inconsistencies affect the behavior of traffic lights, which are sometimes observed to morph slightly when a car is passing under them, and the occasional color shift of a non-ego car along the scene. Neither of these inconsistencies affect trajectory reconstruction. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 13  

> Fig. 9. Left: Relevant frames from an example of merging hallucination observed at an early training stage. The frames are extracted around timestep t*. Right: the extracted graph of the objects in the scene. Notice that around t* two trajectories merge into one, causing one node to have two input nodes.

In addition to this, the generated videos feature diverse and accurate behavior of the ego agent with respect to the traffic lights. Lights of the three colors are observed, and the generated samples also display dynamic color changes. We find that most of the times the agents proceed when the light is green, but slows down and stops at the red light. Only one situation that is observed sometimes in real videos was never observed in the generated ones, namely the ego car driving on a narrow road flanked by parked agents. We believe this is not learned by the videoGAN due to being a rare occurrence and visually very different from usual scenes. However, parked cars do not seem to be very relevant to the behavior of vehicles driving on the road. The road lines also appear mostly realistic in size and behavior, although intersections are often represented as a confused web of center lanes, especially in scenes of lower FOV. In all cases, the agents appear to keep a safety distance. All these observations are valid throughout videos of any length, up to 2 minutes long, for the three FOVs investigated. 

4.3 Quantitative measure of the hallucinations 

Analyzing the trajectory reconstruction graphs allows us to extract useful in-formation about the quality of the generated videos. In particular, counting the amount of nodes in a scene which have an abnormal degree of input or output edges. A node with no parent node corresponds to an agent appearing in the scene, and a node with no children nodes corresponds to an agent disappearing. Similarly, a node with two parent nodes would correspond to a visual hallucina-tion in which two distinct objects merge into one, and a node with two children nodes would correspond to an object splitting in two separate objects. These hallucinations are observed at early stages in training the videoGAN, and an example is provided in Figure 9. As object permanence is one of the core difficulties of visual based prediction and generation, being able to track the occurrence of such hallucinations is very valuable in this type of work. Computing the splitting and merging metrics on the well-performing checkpoints (at 20, 23 and 24 epochs respectively) over 100 scenes of 128 frames each yields rates lower than 1% at FOV 15 m and 20 m, 14 A. Mariani et al.                                                     

> Full frame Boundary-excluded FOV Category Generated Real Generated Real
> 15 m Appearing 48.0% 49.0% 0.0% 3.0% Disappearing 76.0% 52.0% 33.0% 2.0% Merging 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Splitting 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 20 m Appearing 61.6% 58.6% 2.0% 1.0% Disappearing 80.8% 56.6% 45.5% 1.0% Merging 1.0% 0.0% 1.0% 0.0% Splitting 1.0% 0.0% 1.0% 0.0% 25 m Appearing 69.0% 70.7% 10.0% 1.0% Disappearing 87.0% 66.7% 55.0% 0.0% Merging 4.0% 1.0% 2.0% 0.0% Splitting 6.0% 1.0% 2.0% 0.0%
> Table 1. Percentage of videos containing at least one case of disappearing, appear-ing, merging or splitting events for different FOV, evaluation region ("Full frame" or "Boundary-excluded") and sample type (generated or real).

and marginally higher rates for FOV 25 m (see Table 1). Figure 10 shows the distribution of scenes with different numbers of appearing and disappearing ve-hicle events for scenes of FOV 15 m. The generated and real scene distributions are generally well aligned, with approximately half of the scenes containing no appearing events. A similar trend can be observed for disappearing events, al-though the generated scenes exhibit a slightly higher frequency of such events. It is important to note that the appearing and disappearing metrics do not directly measure the creation or removal of vehicles by the generative model. Instead, an appearing event can also occur when a vehicle enters the field of view of the ego vehicle, while a disappearing event can result from a vehicle leaving the observed area. Therefore, these events alone do not necessarily indicate hallucinations or violations of object permanence. The similarity between real and generated dis-tributions suggests that the observed events primarily reflect realistic changes in scene visibility rather than artificial spawning or disappearance of agents. For this reason, we additionally report these metrics after excluding events oc-curring within the outer 10% of the frame boundaries, where objects are likely to enter or leave the field of view. The right column ("Boundary-excluded") of Table 1 counts the amount of videos that display at least one case of disap-pearing, appearing, merging or splitting vehicles that is not happening near the frame boundaries. Overall, the generated scenes exhibit strong temporal consis-tency and realistic dynamics, with only occasional minor inconsistencies arising in highly static scenarios. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 15     

> Fig. 10. Distribution of appearing and disappearing events for FOV 15 m, calculated over 100 real and 100 generated scenes.
> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 11. Distribution of object footprint areas in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m. The peak around 12 m 2corresponds to the average area of a car.

4.4 Quantitative Results: Frame-level 

We quantitatively evaluate the observations above by analyzing the distribution alignment for different geometrical parameters extracted from the generated and real videos. We apply the same object detection pipeline to 200 real and 200 gen-erated videos of duration 10 s. Figure 11 shows the distribution of the dimension of the extracted objects per each frame across the three investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m. The distribution over the generated videos matches the one over the real videos fairly well in all three cases. The three modes of the distri-butions match the type of objects present in the scenes: some traffic lights and the occasional pedestrian around 2 to 5 m 2, a great prevalence of cars around 12 m 2, and some longer vehicle around 18 m 2. Some of these longer vehicles are the result of inpainting a traffic light which is very near to a vehicle, as explained 16 A. Mariani et al.       

> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 12. Distribution of the distances between the two nearest vehicles in a scene, in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m
> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 13. Distribution of the amounts of vehicles in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m. The amount of vehicles in scenes of FOV 15 ranges between 1 and 5, while it reaches up to 10 for scenes of FOV 25.

above. As observed above, this is mostly significant for vehicles waiting at a red traffic light. Figure 12 shows the distribution of distances between the two nearest cars in a frame. Also in this case, the distributions match very well for all FOVs, with the generated scenes displaying even a marginally higher average distance between agents for FOV 15 m. Overall, this suggests that generated road users maintain appropriate separation in the traffic. Finally, Figures 13 and 14 report the average numbers of respectively vehicles and traffic lights observed in the generated and real videos. Also in this case the distributions are highly compa-rable, with the generated scenes presenting a marginally higher number of scenes with less traffic lights across all the FOVs. As expected, scenes with larger FOV encompass significantly more agents and traffic lights than scenes of lower FOV. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 17    

> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 14. Distribution of the amounts of traffic lights in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m. In all three cases, most of the frames do not display traffic lights, and the ones who do have a preference for clustering in groups of around 3.

4.5 Quantitative Results: Dynamics 

Figure 15 and 16 show the statistical distributions of relative speeds and accel-erations of agents with the respect to the ego vehicle. Both distributions match very accurately also in logarithmic scale, which suggest that the video-generative model has learned the dynamics of the traffic scenes. This also confirms the qual-itative observations reported above. Positive speeds and accelerations are due to road users overtaking the ego vehicle, and similarly negative speeds are for agents moving in the opposite direction or being overtaken by the ego vehicle. The sizable peak around 0 stems from co-moving traffic and the high prevalence of ego-only scenes. This is also reflected in the broader distribution displayed by higher FOV scenes, which display a more diverse dynamic behavior in correlation with the higher amount of non-ego vehicles in each scene. In Figure 17 we observe that the average lengths of the trajectories extracted from the real and the generated videos are also comparable, although the real scenes display a slightly higher amount of medium-length scenes. This might correlate with the higher rate of agents leaving a scene observed in Figure 10. Finally, we report the time-to-collision (TTC) metric, computed as the ratio of the distance between two approaching agents and their relative distance, given in Figure 18. For visualization purposes only, TTC values exceeding 20s are displayed as 20s, as larger values indicate negligible collision risk and are less informative for comparison. In all three cases, the generated scenes display a comparable or lower occurrence of low TTCs, which reflects on one side the absence of merging/colliding events reported above, and on the other it indicates once again that the generated trajectories do not look statistically less safe than the real one. 18 A. Mariani et al.       

> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 15. Distribution of vehicle speeds in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m, presented in logaritmic scale. The significant peak around 0 correspond to vehicles moving at the same speed as the ego vehicle (comoving traffic).
> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 16. Distribution of vehicle accelerations in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m, presented in logaritmic scale.

4.6 Quantitative Results: Traffic Lights 

Since the model is unconditional, the generated map geometry may exhibit small local variations over time. To avoid introducing unnecessary uncertainty when estimating vehicle motion, we compute vehicle speeds relative to the traffic lights rather than with respect to the generated map itself. Qualitative inspection shows that traffic lights remain spatially consistent with the surrounding traffic throughout the generated sequences. We therefore treat them as static reference points and use the resulting relative vehicle speeds as a proxy for the absolute speeds when assessing realism. Figures 19 and 20 report the distribution of the relative speed of the ego vehicle with respect to a traffic light in that frame. For the red lights, in Figure 19, we observe that in all cases the vehicle in the frame is most likely to be still. Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 19       

> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 17. Distribution of the lengths of real and generated trajectories as extracted from the videos for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m.
> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 18. Distribution of time-to-collision values for real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m.

This is particularly true for lower FOVs, while the higher FOVs seem to display a slightly higher probability for the agent to be moving. Also for the distribution of speeds near green traffic lights, in Figure 20, the generated distribution matches the real one in intensity and shape. The lower intensity of the peak at speed 0, which disappears for scenes of FOV 25, suggests that generated vehicles are slightly more likely to cross a green light, rather than staying still. However, they do not display higher rates of speeds over 50 km/h when compared with the real scenes. Overall the good match between the real and generated distribution suggests that the model learned in some measure a safe and realistic interaction with traffic lights, in agreement with visual observations. Also observe that the range of speeds is compatible with average traffic speeds at large intersections like the ones present in the Waymo Dataset. This supports the validity of the hypothesis that traffic lights can be considered fixed in this analysis. 20 A. Mariani et al.       

> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 19. Distribution of vehicle speeds in the proximity of a red light, in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m.
> (a) FOV 15 m (b) FOV 20 m (c) FOV 25 m
> Fig. 20. Distribution of vehicle speeds in the proximity of a green light, in real and generated scenes, for the three different investigated FOVs of 15 m, 20 m and 25 m.

# 5 Conclusions and Outlook 

In this work, we expanded upon [28] to investigate a trajectory proposal pipeline based on a video generative model which is effective at learning the dynamics of traffic scenes in a purely visual fashion, without external rules or conditions. Trajectory data is encoded in 2D BEV semantic videos of traffic scenes, upon which a video generative model is trained, and finally trajectories are extracted from the generated videos. In particular, we introduced improvements in the semantic encoding of the traffic scenes, which leads to better frame by frame object recognition in the trajectory extraction pipeline. We also presented an improved graph-based object tracking method for semantic trajectory gener-ation, and we used it to quantitatively assess the visual quality of generated scenes by measuring hallucinations, including disappearing and splitting objects. We systematically investigated larger fields of view, evaluating scene generation over longitudinal ranges of 15 m, 20 m, and 25 m, and we observed statistically Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 21 

safe and realistic trajectories over metrics such as speed, acceleration and time-to-collision distributions, with only slightly worsened statistics displayed in the larger FOV settings. These results are observed while maintaining inference times below 20 ms for generating traffic scenes of up to 20 s, which are competitive for real-time downstream applications. 

Disclosure of Interests. The research leading to these results is funded by the Ger-man Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy within the project NXT GEN AI METHODS Generative Methoden für Perzeption, Prädiktion und Planung" (Grant no. 19A23014Q). The authors would like to thank the consortium for the successful cooperation. The authors gratefully acknowledge the Gauss Centre for Supercomput-ing e.V. https://www.gauss-centre.eu for funding this project by providing computing time on the GCS Supercomputer JUWELS at Jülich Supercomputing Centre (JSC). 

# References 

1. Bharilya, V., Kumar, N.: Machine Learning for Autonomous Vehicle’s Trajectory Prediction: A comprehensive survey, Challenges, and Future Research Directions (Jul 2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.07527 2. Blattmann, A., Dockhorn, T., Kulal, S., Mendelevitch, D., Kilian, M., Lorenz, D., Levi, Y., English, Z., Voleti, V., Letts, A., et al.: Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127 (2023) 3. Brooks, T., Hellsten, J., Aittala, M., Wang, T.C., Aila, T., Lehtinen, J., Liu, M.Y., Efros, A.A., Karras, T.: Generating Long Videos of Dynamic Scenes. In: 36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (2022) 4. Chen, X., Huang, C., Wang, C., Chen, L.: Trajectory generation: A survey on methods and techniques. Geoinformatica (Apr 2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10707-025-00545-z 5. Clark, A., Donahue, J., Simonyan, K.: Adversarial video generation on complex datasets (2019), https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06571 6. Cui, A., Casas, S., Sadat, A., Liao, R., Urtasun, R.: LookOut: Diverse Multi-Future Prediction and Planning for Self-Driving. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 16107–16116 (2021) 7. Fang, L., Jiang, Q., Shi, J., Zhou, B.: TPNet: Trajectory Proposal Network for Motion Prediction. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (2020) 8. Gilles, T., Sabatini, S., Tsishkou, D., Stanciulescu, B., Moutarde, F.: HOME: Heatmap Output for future Motion Estimation. In: IEEE Int. Intell. Transp. Syst. Conf. pp. 500–507 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/ITSC48978.2021.9564944 9. Grigorescu, S., Trasnea, B., Cocias, T., Macesanu, G.: A Survey of Deep Learning Techniques for Autonomous Driving. Journal of Field Robotics 37 (3), 362–386 (Apr 2020). https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21918 10. Gu, T., Chen, G., Li, J., Lin, C., Rao, Y., Zhou, J., Lu, J.: Stochastic Trajectory Prediction via Motion Indeterminacy Diffusion. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 17113–17122 (2022) 11. Gupta, A., Johnson, J., Fei-Fei, L., Savarese, S., Alahi, A.: Social GAN: Socially Acceptable Trajectories With Generative Adversarial Networks. In: Proceedings of 22 A. Mariani et al. the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 2255–2264 (2018) 12. Horgan, J., Hughes, C., McDonald, J., Yogamani, S.: Vision-Based Driver As-sistance Systems: Survey, Taxonomy and Advances. In: Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE 18th International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems. pp. 2032–2039. ITSC ’15, IEEE Computer Society, USA (Sep 2015). https://doi.org/ 10.1109/ITSC.2015.329 13. Hu, A., Murez, Z., Mohan, N., Dudas, S., Hawke, J., Badrinarayanan, V., Cipolla, R., Kendall, A.: FIERY: Future Instance Prediction in Bird’s-Eye View from Sur-round Monocular Cameras. In: 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Com-puter Vision (ICCV). pp. 15253–15262. IEEE, Montreal, QC, Canada (Oct 2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCV48922.2021.01499 14. Hu, S., Chen, L., Wu, P., Li, H., Yan, J., Tao, D.: ST-P3: End-to-End Vision-Based Autonomous Driving via Spatial-Temporal Feature Learning. In: Avidan, S., Brostow, G., Cissé, M., Farinella, G.M., Hassner, T. (eds.) Computer Vision – ECCV 2022. pp. 533–549. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham (2022). https: //doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-19839-7_31 15. Huang, R., Zhuo, G., Xiong, L., Lu, S., Tian, W.: A Review of Deep Learning-Based Vehicle Motion Prediction for Autonomous Driving. Sustainability 15 (20), 14716 (Oct 2023). https://doi.org/10.3390/su152014716 16. Huang, R., Xue, H., Pagnucco, M., Salim, F., Song, Y.: Multimodal Trajectory Prediction: A Survey (Feb 2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2302.10463 17. Huang, Z., He, Y., Yu, J., Zhang, F., Si, C., Jiang, Y., Zhang, Y., Wu, T., Jin, Q., Chanpaisit, N., Wang, Y., Chen, X., Wang, L., Lin, D., Qiao, Y., Liu, Z.: Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models (2023), https: //arxiv.org/abs/2311.17982 18. Huang, Z., He, Y., Yu, J., Zhang, F., Si, C., Jiang, Y., Zhang, Y., Wu, T., Jin, Q., Chanpaisit, N., Wang, Y., Chen, X., Wang, L., Lin, D., Qiao, Y., Liu, Z.: Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for video generative models. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 21807–21818 (June 2024) 19. Jia, X., Wu, P., Chen, L., Liu, Y., Li, H., Yan, J.: HDGT: Heterogeneous Driving Graph Transformer for Multi-Agent Trajectory Prediction via Scene Encoding. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 45 (11), 13860–13875 (Nov 2023). https: //doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2023.3298301 20. Jiang, C.M., Cornman, A., Park, C., Sapp, B., Zhou, Y., Anguelov, D.: MotionDif-fuser: Controllable Multi-Agent Motion Prediction Using Diffusion. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (2023) 21. Jiao, R., Wang, Y., Liu, X., Zhan, S.S., Huang, C., Zhu, Q.: Kinematics-aware Trajectory Generation and Prediction with Latent Stochastic Differential Mod-eling. In: 2024 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. pp. 565–572. IEEE, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (Oct 2024). https://doi.org/10.1109/IROS58592.2024.10802438 22. Khan, M.A., Sayed, H.E., Malik, S., Zia, T., Khan, J., Alkaabi, N., Ignatious, H.: Level-5 Autonomous Driving—Are We There Yet? A Review of Research Lit-erature. ACM Comput. Surv. 55 (2), 1–38 (Feb 2023). https://doi.org/10.1145/ 3485767 23. Leon, F., Gavrilescu, M.: A Review of Tracking and Trajectory Prediction Methods for Autonomous Driving. Mathematics 9(6), 660 (Jan 2021). https://doi.org/10. 3390/math9060660 Extended Field of View Analysis for VideoGAN-based Trajectory Generation 23 24. Li, S., Anis, M., Lord, D., Zhang, H., Zhou, Y., Ye, X.: Beyond 1d and over-simplified kinematics: A generic analytical framework for surrogate safety mea-sures. Accident Analysis and Prevention 204 , 107649 (2024). https://doi.org/https: //doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2024.107649 25. Li, Y., Shao, X., Zhang, J., Wang, H., Brunswic, L.M., Zhou, K., Dong, J., Guo, K., Li, X., Chen, Z., Wang, J., Hao, J.: Generative Models in Decision Making: A Survey (Mar 2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.17100 26. Lyu, Z., Si, C., Song, J., Yang, Z., Qiao, Y., Liu, Z., Wong, K.Y.K.: Fastercache: Training-free video diffusion model acceleration with high quality. In: Yue, Y., Garg, A., Peng, N., Sha, F., Yu, R. (eds.) International Conference on Learning Representations. vol. 2025, pp. 33132–33156 (2025) 27. Mahjourian, R., Kim, J., Chai, Y., Tan, M., Sapp, B., Anguelov, D.: Occupancy Flow Fields for Motion Forecasting in Autonomous Driving. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 7(2), 5639–5646 (Apr 2022). https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2022.3151613 28. Mariani, A., Maag, K., Gottschalk, H.: Videogan-based trajectory proposal for automated vehicles. In: Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Agents and Artificial Intelligence - Volume 2: ICAART. pp. 1149–1156. INSTICC, SciTePress (2026). https://doi.org/10.5220/0014229000004052 29. Ngiam, J., Vasudevan, V., Caine, B., Zhang, Z., Chiang, H.T.L., Ling, J., Roelofs, R., Bewley, A., Liu, C., Venugopal, A., Weiss, D.J., Sapp, B., Chen, Z., Shlens, J.: Scene Transformer: A unified architecture for predicting future trajectories of multiple agents. In: International Conference on Learning Representations (Oct 2021) 30. Park, D., Ryu, H., Yang, Y., Cho, J., Kim, J., Yoon, K.J.: Leveraging Future Rela-tionship Reasoning for Vehicle Trajectory Prediction. In: International Conference on Learning Representations (2023) 31. Rhinehart, N., McAllister, R., Levine, S.: Deep Imitative Models for Flexible In-ference, Planning, and Control. In: International Conference on Learning Repre-sentations (Sep 2019) 32. Ridel, D., Deo, N., Wolf, D., Trivedi, M.: Scene Compliant Trajectory Forecast With Agent-Centric Spatio-Temporal Grids. IEEE Robotics and Automation Let-ters 5(2), 2816–2823 (Apr 2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2020.2974393 33. Rombach, R., Blattmann, A., Lorenz, D., Esser, P., Ommer, B.: High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 10684–10695 (2022) 34. Saxena, D., Cao, J.: Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): Challenges, Solu-tions, and Future Directions. ACM Comput. Surv. 54 (3), 63:1–63:42 (May 2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3446374 35. Saxena, D., Cao, J.: Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): Challenges, So-lutions, and Future Directions. ACM Computing Surveys 54 (3), 1–42 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3446374 36. Shi, S., Jiang, L., Dai, D., Schiele, B.: Motion Transformer with Global Intention Localization and Local Movement Refinement. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35 , 6531–6543 (Dec 2022) 37. Singer, U., Polyak, A., Hayes, T., Yin, X., An, J., Zhang, S., Hu, Q., Yang, H., Ashual, O., Gafni, O., Parikh, D., Gupta, S., Taigman, Y.: Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation without text-video data (2022), https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.14792 38. Sun, P., Kretzschmar, H., Dotiwalla, X., Chouard, A., Patnaik, V., Tsui, P., Guo, J., Zhou, Y., Chai, Y., Caine, B., Vasudevan, V., Han, W., Ngiam, J., Zhao, H., Timofeev, A., Ettinger, S., Krivokon, M., Gao, A., Joshi, A., Zhang, Y., Shlens, J., 24 A. Mariani et al. Chen, Z., Anguelov, D.: Scalability in perception for autonomous driving: Waymo open dataset. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (June 2020) 39. Sun, P., Kretzschmar, H., Dotiwalla, X., Chouard, A., Patnaik, V., Tsui, P., Guo, J., Zhou, Y., Chai, Y., Caine, B., Vasudevan, V., Han, W., Ngiam, J., Zhao, H., Timofeev, A., Ettinger, S., Krivokon, M., Gao, A., Joshi, A., Zhang, Y., Shlens, J., Chen, Z., Anguelov, D.: Scalability in Perception for Autonomous Driving: Waymo Open Dataset. In: 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 2443–2451. IEEE, Seattle, WA, USA (Jun 2020). https: //doi.org/10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.00252 40. Unterthiner, T., van Steenkiste, S., Kurach, K., Marinier, R., Michalski, M., Gelly, S.: Towards accurate generative models of video: A new metric and challenges (2019), https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.01717 41. Wang, L., Zheng, W., Ren, Y., Jiang, H., Cui, Z., Yu, H., Lu, J.: Occsora: 4d occupancy generation models as world simulators for autonomous driving. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing 35 , 4947–4960 (2026). https://doi.org/10.1109/ TIP.2026.3687468 42. Winter, K., Vivekanandan, A., Polley, R., Shen, Y., Schlauch, C., Bouzidi, M.K., Derajic, B., Grabowsky, N., Mariani, A., Rochau, D., et al.: Generative ai for autonomous driving: A review. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15863 (2025) 43. Wu, P., Chen, S., Metaxas, D.N.: MotionNet: Joint Perception and Motion Predic-tion for Autonomous Driving Based on Bird’s Eye View Maps. In: 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 11382–11392. IEEE, Seattle, WA, USA (Jun 2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.01140 44. Xing, Z., Feng, Q., Chen, H., Dai, Q., Hu, H., Xu, H., Wu, Z., Jiang, Y.G.: A Survey on Video Diffusion Models. ACM Comput. Surv. 57 (2), 1–42 (Feb 2025). https://doi.org/10.1145/3696415 45. Xiong, W., Chen, J., Qi, Z.: Fine-Grained Behavior and Lane Constraints Guided Trajectory Prediction Method (Apr 2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503. 21477 46. Yu, S., Nie, W., Huang, D.A., Li, B., Shin, J., anandkumar, a.: Efficient video diffu-sion models via content-frame motion-latent decomposition. In: Kim, B., Yue, Y., Chaudhuri, S., Fragkiadaki, K., Khan, M., Sun, Y. (eds.) International Conference on Learning Representations. vol. 2024, pp. 9642–9670 (2024) 47. Zhang, P., Chen, Y., Huang, H., Lin, W., Liu, Z., Stoica, I., Xing, E., Zhang, H.: Faster video diffusion with trainable sparse attention. In: Belgrave, D., Zhang, C., Lin, H., Pascanu, R., Koniusz, P., Ghassemi, M., Chen, N. (eds.) Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. vol. 38, pp. 152509–152534. Curran Associates, Inc. (2025) 48. Zhao, C., Zhu, Y., Du, Y., Liao, F., Chan, C.Y.: A Novel Direct Trajectory Planning Approach Based on Generative Adversarial Networks and Rapidly-Exploring Ran-dom Tree. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transport. Syst. 23 (10), 17910–17921 (Oct 2022). https://doi.org/10.1109/TITS.2022.3164391 49. Zheng, Z., Peng, X., Yang, T., Shen, C., Li, S., Liu, H., Zhou, Y., Li, T., You, Y.: Open-sora: Democratizing efficient video production for all (2024), https://arxiv. org/abs/2412.20404 50. Zhou, Z., Ye, L., Wang, J., Wu, K., Lu, K.: HiVT: Hierarchical Vector Transformer for Multi-Agent Motion Prediction. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (2022)